# Amazon Project

## Table of Content

- [Project Overview](project overview)
- [Data Sources](Data Sources)
- [Tools](tools)
- [Data Cleaning/Preparation](data cleaning/findings)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](exploratory data analysis0
- [Data Analysis](data analysis)
- [Results/Findings](result/findings)
- [Recommendations](recommendations)
- [Limitations](limitations)
- [Conclusion](conclusions)

### Project Overview

The project aims to analyze sales data from a retail chain operating in three branches(Yangon, Naypyitaw and Mandalay). This analysis seeks to uncover key insights, including Customer Demographics, Sales Performance across different product lines,and overall trends in pricing,taxes, and purchase behaviors.
The insights will help in understanding factors influencing sales and in developing strategies to enhance profitability.

### Data Sources

External Economic and Demographic Data
Competitor and Industry Benchmarks Reports
Seasonal and Calendar Data


### Tools

- Excel - Data Cleaning
- SQL Server - Data Analysis

   [Dowload here](https://SQL management studio.com)
  
- PowerBI - Creating reports and Dashboard

### Data Cleaning/Preparation

In the intial data preparation phase,I performed the following tasks:
1. Transformation of Data
2. Identify the missing values
3. Removing of empty rows and columns
4. Using first row as header
5. Trimming and Cleaning of Data
6. loading of Data

### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA Involve exploring the sales data to answer questions, such as:

- Total Revenue generated by each Branch
- The top 3 product lines by Revenue
- Total Revenue by Customer Type (Member vs Normal)
- Average Rating for each Product Line
- Revenue generated per payment method
- Daily Revenue Thread

### Data Analaysis

Some queries on sql

SELECT *

FROM Amazon2

```
--- TOTAL REVENUE GENERATED BY EACH PRODUCT

SELECT Branch,

SUM(Selling_Price * Quantity) + TAX_5) AS Total_Revenue

FROM Amazon2

Group By Branch

--- AVERAGE RATING FOR EACH PRODUCT LINE

SELECT Product_Line,

AVG(Rating) AS Average_Rating

FROM Amazon

Group By Product_Line

--- TOP 3 PRODUCTS LINES BY REVENUE

SELECT TOP 3 Product_Line,

SUM(Selling_Price * Quantity) + Tax_5) AS Total_Revenue

FROM Amazon2

Group By Product_Line

Order By Total_Revenue DESC

```


### Results/Findings

These insights can guide decision-making and high-light trends in customer behavior, Product Performance, and Branch Efficiency
1. Branch Performance
   Revenue Distribution: The Branch analysis reveals that Branch C in Yangon generates the highest revenue overall, followed by Branch B in NAYPYITAW and MANDALAY. This could indicate a larger and more loyal customer based in YANGON or a higher demand in a specifc product lines.
   Transaction Volume: Branch C also has the highest transaction volume, suggesting a strong customer flow and consistent sales activity.

2. Correlation Analysis
   Price and Quantity Correlation: There is a slight negative correlation between unit price and quanity, suggesting that lower-priced products tend to be bought in larger quantities.
   Selling Price and Tax: As expected, there is a strong positive correlation between selling price and tax amount, validating that tax is accurately calculated at 5% of the subtotal.

3. Strategic Implications
   Branch Implications: Given the high performance of Branch C in YANGON, It may be beneficial to explore expanding product lines or increasing stock levels in this branch.
   Product Line Focus: Promoting top-selling product lines like Health and Beauty and Electronic Accessories could maximize revenue.
   Targeted Marketing: Since members and female customers show higher spending,targeted camapaigns, especially around weekends and peak months, and may yield better results.

   ### Recommendations

   Based on the findings from the analysis, here are several recommendations that can help improve sales, optimize branch operations, and enhance customer satisfaction.

   1. Focus on High-Performing Branches
   2. Enhance Loyalty Program For Members
   3. Product Line Strategy
   4. Leverage Seasonal Sales Patters
   5. Gender-Specific Marketing
   6. Improve Sales Tax Efficiency
  
### Limitations
Here are some limitations of the analysis, which could impact the insights and recommendations drawn from the data:

1. Data Coverage and Sample Size
2. Lack of Granular Customer Data
3. Seasonal and Economic Influences Not Accounted For
4. Potential Data Entry Errors and Outliers
5. Limitation in Product Line
6. Transactional Data Only(No Longitudinal Customer Analysis)
7. Assumption of Uniform Tax Rate

### Conclusions

While the Analysis provides valuable insights, these limiations highlight the need for caution in interpretations. Collecting additional data (such as product costs, inventory levels, and more detailed customer demographic) and expanding the timeframe can enhance accuracy and lead to a more comprehensive understanding of business performance.

[Headings1][Heading2]
[---------][--------]

   

